spring climbs the mountains hibernation
isn't something an animal just wakes up
from even after surviving here for seven
months
the transition from oblivion to action
isn't exactly right
the Marmot could die it needs what's
left of its fat stores to heat its heart
and blood the warmed heart beats faster
the warm blood flows first to the
critical areas and then to the whole
body
it's a quick system but it takes almost
all of what's left of the marmots energy
if it takes more than what's left
the Marmot never wakes up
half the youngsters don't wake up but
most of the adults do their bodies
around 1/3 lighter than when winter
began their ravenously hungry but they
hardly eat for at least a week the time
it takes to rebuild their gut lining and
because they use so much energy just
waking up some don't last that week
awake and amid the spring vegetation
they starve because there are so few
Vancouver Island marmots every survivor
is important for the species
understanding how hibernation works is
important too it may help save them
you